You also need to be on the lookout for exceptions run by your
application as they could result in security breaches.
One of the most common vulnerabilities are injection attacks.
The hacker is browsing their portfolio and comes across the following
page with a search text field where you can enter in the crypto symbol
you want to retrieve transactions for.
Now these type of searches should always raise some alarm bells,
and it's worth testing for injection.
By simply submitting a single quote, ouch,
real bad exception handling. The hacker now knows that there is a database back
end and a definite opportunity for a SQL injection attack.
Now through trial and error and different combinations of
input, or perhaps by viewing the source and getting some hints
that this might be a Spring back end,
the hacker tries to use the default tables with the following query.
Now this query closes the single quotes and adds a union with three rows,
the typical field names you might use for username and
password, as well as the users table.
The hacker has now all the credentials from the site.
Now there's a number of issues here.
First,
the site has poor exception handling. The exception should
definitely not have been presented to the user,
but perhaps maybe a default exception page or simply just
returning an empty result set. Now, of course the second issue
here is the SQL injection vulnerability.
The developer should definitely have used a prepared
statement or used the Spring CrudRepository. Again, this
is an obvious example. But again, as a tech lead,
I still see this kind of code from time to time
while performing technical reviews,
particularly when the dev team is under pressure with tight deadlines.
Corners are cut,
perhaps with the intention of going back and
refactoring it, but this is often forgotten.
Hence,
it is a good idea to keep credentials in a separate database or data
store, behind an API or an a microservice perhaps.
Thirdly,
the password strength is not in line with best practices and is very
susceptible to brute force or dictionary attacks.
And finally, the password is in plain text. It should be hashed so that it's useless to the hacker.